- Social emotional skills:

Employers are seeking candidates who bring a combination of social skills and 
emotional intelligence in addition to traditional technical skills. 
Being a good communicator and developing positive relationships with coworkers 
help employees stand out. Possessing good social and emotional skills will help 
use all your relationships—from personal to professional.

Prioritizing your workload is a critical skill that will save you a lot of time 
and stress, and it can help you prevent burnout. 

There are multiple tools, apps, and online resources that can assist with time 
management, to-do’s, and tasks. Find a method or approach that works for you. 

There is no one solution that works for everyone, so stay curious about 
different approaches to your organization and time management strategy. Break 
your big projects and tasks into smaller tasks to make it more manageable and 
more rewarding.

When you focus on what outcomes you want to achieve by completing a specific 
task or goal, you can feel more in control of your time and emotional 
well-being. 

Procrastination is a major hindrance to productivity and work satisfaction. 
While it is normal to experience a little bit of procrastination, it is 
detrimental if it means you are completing the majority of your work very close 
to proposed deadlines, working overtime, experiencing troubles with focus, or 
working on the weekends to make up for lost hours of productivity. 

These all lead to feeling overwhelmed and stressed, and may make you feel 
depressed and overworked. Identify things that distract you from your work and 
reflect back on times when you did procrastinate.

What were some common items, events, or settings that distracted you from 
focusing on your work? 
One item to consider is your work environment. Your surroundings can have a big 
influence on your focus and productivity. Workplaces that have a lot of 
activity or noise, or working in a busy cafe are some examples of environments 
that can distract us.
At home, you might be interrupted by pets or children who want attention, 
outside noise, or various house tasks that you feel need done. Notice what 
settings you feel the most productive in and aspire to create a work 
environment that emulates that. Everyone is different!
Approach this exploration with an open mind and make it work for you.

Confidence is at the cornerstone of success. It’s a critical skill that will 
help you be seen as a leader within your workplace and eventually lead to more 
opportunities for advancement or raises. Carrying yourself with confidence will 
help you earn respect from teammates and clients. Your confidence will guide 
them to trust your expertise to a greater degree. Regulating emotions also goes 
a long way in career success. 

Practicing empathy with coworkers and clients further develops a positive 
relationship with them. Everyone loves to feel like they’re understood and 
supported in their endeavors. It’s equally important that you take time to 
practice self-compassion and self-forgiveness. 

If you ever feel overwhelmed by the amount of tasks you have to complete or 
don’t understand the nature of your assignment, always reach out to your 
colleagues and supervisors for assistance. 

You are not in it alone, and everyone in the IT field has been a novice at some 
point in their career. Reach out to your team to gain clarification on the 
expectations for your role, brainstorm ideas about making your work more 
efficient, or revising your workload if you are assigned more than what you’re 
able to complete without burnout.