- Evaluating the Cloud:

If you've always worked in a traditional IT environment with servers that are physically owned by your company, the idea of migrating to the cloud can be pretty scary. 

When you're running the service yourself, if something breaks, you can either physically walk up to the server to fix it or SSH into it from inside the same network. 
You can apply a quick fix and have your users back to being productive in no time.

As part of the IT team, you own the hardware, software, the network connections, and anything in between, which lets you have a lot of control over what's going on in the whole system. 

In the case of cloud solutions, we need to give up some of this control to the cloud provider.

We have different levels of control depending on the service model that we choose, whether that's "software", "platform", or "infrastructure" as a service. 

· SaaS: We're basically giving the provider complete control of how the 
  application runs. 
  We have a limited amount of settings that we can change, but we don't need to worry about making the system work. 
  This can be a great option when the software provided fulfills all of our needs and we'd rather just focus on using the software instead. 
  
· PaaS: If we need to create our own applications, we can use platform as a 
  service. With this option, we're in charge of the code, but we aren't in control of running the application. 

· IaaS: We can still keep a high level of control. 
  We decide the OS that runs on the virtual machines, the applications that are installed on it, and so on. 
  We'll still depend on the vendor for other aspects of the deployment, like the network configuration or the services availability. 
  If something does break, you might need to get support from the vendor to fix the problem. 
  
When choosing a cloud provider, it's important to: 
· Know what kind of support is available and select the one that fits your 
  needs. 
· Check how they're keeping your instances and your data secure. 
  There are a bunch of certifications like SOC 1, ISO 27001, and other industry recognized credentials that you can look for to verify that your provider has invested in security. 

I know it sounds strange to give away your control over the hardware, and the network, and the overall infrastructure but, feels pretty great to not have to worry about maintaining the machines that are running our services. 
We can treat the servers executing the workloads as a commodity. 

It might be tempting to just leave security to the professionals and forget about it but as cloud users, we also have a responsibility to follow reasonable security practices. 
Google, Amazon, Microsoft, and other cloud providers invest heavily in security research but, that won't matter if the root password of your cloud instance is "password1" or the instance doesn't use a "firewall". 

We should always use reasonable judgment to protect the machines that we deploy, whether that's on physical servers running on-premise or on virtual machines in the Cloud. 

It's also important to keep in mind that security systems can be expensive to implement correctly. 
Some highly sensitive deployments might warrant specialized security procedures, like "multi-factor authentication", "encrypted file systems", or "public key" cryptography. 
It's worth considering if using these techniques is necessary for your specific use case. 

If your application stores recent patient health records, that's super important data that needs to be protected. You want to apply the most stringent security practices. 
But if you're dealing with patient health records from the 1800s, you'll need less comprehensive security measures, since this data is much less sensitive, given its age. 

There's a bunch of other reasons why you might have doubts about cloud providers. 
For example, you might be worried of where your data is going to be stored. Or you might fear that the support offered won't satisfy your needs. 

No matter the reason, it's important that you carefully read the "terms of service" to understand the conditions and figure out if the service offered will satisfy your needs. 

If you prepare in advance with the right security measures, working in the cloud will be nothing but a breeze. 

Let's say you've decided to migrate part of your infrastructure to the cloud. 

- What do you do next?
Migrating to the cloud is a big topic, and it's coming up in our next module.