- Fixing Someone Else's Code:

In our IT jobs, it's pretty common to have to fix problems and code that we 
didn't write ourselves. 
It might be because we're working with a program that's open-source or with a 
program that was developed by someone else inside the company. 

When this happens, we need to spend some time getting acquainted with the code 
so that we can understand what's going on. 

If the code has comments and the functions are well-documented, reading these 
is a great place to start when trying to figure out what's going on.

- Remember way back in the course, when we first introduced Python? 
It is very important developing good habits when we're writing code. 
Writing good comments is one of those good habits that pays off when trying to 
understand code written by others and also your past self.

Unfortunately, a lot of code doesn't include enough comments, leaving us to try 
to understand it without enough context. 
If that's the case, you can improve things by adding comments as you read the 
code and figure out what it's doing. Writing these comments help you solidify 
your understanding. If you contribute those comments back to the original 
developers, you can help anybody else trying to understand the code. 

Another thing that can help to understand someone else's code is reading the 
tests associated to the code. 
Well-written tests can tell us what each function is expected to do. 
Looking at the existing tests can show us which use cases weren't taken into 
account. 

- What if there aren't enough tests? 
Just like with writing extra comments, writing some tests of your own can help 
you better see what the code is supposed to do and improve overall quality of 
the code. This can also be really useful when modifying the original code. 
To ensure that changes you make, don't break the rest of the functionality. 

- How do you even start reading through someone else's code? 
This depends a bit on personal preference and the size of the project. 
If there are only a couple hundred lines of code, it's feasible to read all of 
them. But when the project has thousands or tens of thousands of lines of code, 
you can't really read the whole thing. 
You'll need to focus on the functions or modules that are part of the problem 
that you're trying to fix. 

One possible approach in this case, would be to: 
- Start with the function where the error happened, 
- Then the function or functions that call it, 
and so on until you can grasp the contexts that led to the problem. 

While this is much easier if it's in a programming language that you're 
familiar with, you don't need to be an expert in the language to fix a bug in 
the program. 
If you've come across an error and debug the issue well enough to understand 
what's going on, you might be able to fix the problem even if you've never seen 
that language before. 

This is one of those skills that gets better with practice. So it might make 
sense to you to start practicing before you need to fix a problem in the code. 

Take a program that you both use and have access to its code and figure out how 
it does a specific action. Follow the code until you really understand what's 
going on. 

- For example: 
  - Take the web server software you're using and check out how it parses its 
    configuration files,
  - Take a look at one Python module you like, like Python "Request" for 
    example and figure out how it processes the data it receives.

Doing this, you can get used to reading code written by others and 
understanding what it's doing. 

Another option is to pick an open-source project that you use. 
Look at the list of open issues and to have a go at fixing an easy one. 
To do that, you'll need to find your way around the code, understand what it's 
doing and what to change. 

By practicing doing this, you'll improve your ability to quickly figure out 
what the code does and what needs to be changed, while helping improve the 
project's overall quality.