- Why is my computer slow?

Our computers execute thousands of millions of instructions per second. 
Each of those instructions does one small thing, like incrementing a value, 
comparing two values, or moving a value from one place to another.
Still with thousands of millions of instructions per second, there's a lot that 
a computer can do in just one second. 
This allows our computer to seemingly execute a number of different thing at 
the same time. 

Say you're browsing the web while also running an application that plays your 
favorite music in the background. Even if your computer has a single core to 
execute those applications, it will seem like the computer is running these two 
programs at the same time. 

What's happening under the hood is that each application gets a fraction of the 
CPU time, and then the next application gets a turn. 
Most of the time this works fine. But if you run too many applications or if 
one of these applications were running needs more CPU time than the fraction 
it's getting, things might become frustratingly slow.

The general strategy for addressing slowness is to "identify the bottleneck" 
that makes our device, our script, or our system to run slowly.

The bottleneck could be the CPU time as we just mentioned. But it could also be 
time spent reading data from disk waiting for data transmitted over the 
network, moving data from disk to RAM, or some other resource that's limiting 
the overall performance. 

Pretty often, we can speed things up and getting rid of anything else that's 
using resources on the same computer. 

· So if the problem is that your program needs more CPU time, you can close   
  other running programs that you don't need right then.
· If the problem is that you don't have enough space on disk, you can uninstall 
  applications that you don't use, or delete or move data that doesn't need to 
  be on that disk.
· If the problem is that the application needs more network bandwidth, you can 
  try stopping any other processes that are also using the network and so on.

This only helps us if the issue is that there are too many processes trying to 
use the same resource.

If we've closed everything that wasn't needed and the computer is still slow, 
we need to look into other possible explanations. 


What if the hardware we're using just isn't good enough for the applications 
we're trying to run on it?
  In cases like these, will have to upgrade the underlying hardware. 
  But to make a difference in the resulting performance, we need to make sure 
  that we're actually improving the bottleneck and not just wasting our money 
  on new hardware that will go unused. 

How can we tell which piece of hardware needs to be changed?
  We need to monitor the usage of our resources to know which of them as being 
  exhausted. This means that it's being used completely and programs are 
  getting blocked by not having access to more of it. 
  · Is it the CPU? 
  · The memory? 
  · The disk IO? 
  · The network connection?
  · The graphics card? 
  
  To find out, we use the tools available in our operating system, to monitor 
  the usage of each resource, and then work out which one is blocking our 
  programs for running faster. 
  
  We've already talked about using "top" on Linux systems. 
  This tool lets us see which currently running processes are using the most 
  CPU time. 
  If we start by memory, which ones are using the most memory. It also shows a 
  bunch of other load information related to the current state of the computer, 
  like how many processes are running and how the CPU time or memory is being 
  used. 
  
  We also called out in earlier modules a couple of other programs like "iotop" 
  and "iftop". 
  They can help us see which processes are currently using the most disk IO 
  usage or the most network bandwidth. 
  
  · On MacOS, the OS ships with a tool called "Activity Monitor" which lets us 
    see what's using the most CPU, memory, energy, disk, or network. 
  · On Windows, there's a couple of OS tools called "Resource Monitor" and
    "Performance Monitor" which also let us analyze what's going on with the 
    different resources on the computer including CPU, memory, disk and 
    network.
    
    So if you're looking to diagnose what's causing your computer to run slow, 
    the first step is always to open one of these tools. Check out what's going 
    on, and try to understand which resources the bottleneck and why. 
    Then plan how you're going to solve the issue. 
    
Of course, not all performance problems are solved by closing applications or 
getting better hardware. Sometimes, we need to figure out what the software is 
doing wrong and where it's spending most of its time to understand how to make 
it run faster. 
    
We need to really study each problem to get to the root cause of the slowness.