- The most common causes of slowness:

Quick reminder: 
When trying to diagnose why a computer is slow, we should use the process of 
elimination that we looked at earlier. 
We first look for the simplest explanations that are the easiest to check. And 
after eliminating a possible root cause, we go back to the problem and come up 
with the next possible cause to check. 

So when trying to figure out what's making a computer slow, the first step is 
to look into when the computer is slow:
· If it's slow when starting up, it's probably a sign that there are too many 
  applications configured to start on boot.
  In this case, fixing the problem is just a question of going through the list 
  of programs that start automatically and disabling any that aren't really 
  needed. 

· If instead the computer becomes sluggish after days of running just fine, and
  the problem goes away with a reboot, it means that there's a program that's 
  keeping some state while running, that's causing the computer to slow down. 
  For example, this can happen if a program stores some data in memory and the 
  data keeps growing over time, without deleting old values. 
  If a program like this stays running for many days, the data might grow so 
  much that reading it becomes slow and the computer runs out of RAM. This is 
  almost certainly a bug in the program. And the ideal solution for a problem 
  like this is to change the code so that it frees up some of the memory used. 
  
  If you don't have access to the code, another option is to schedule a regular 
  restart to mitigate both the slow program and your computer running out of 
  RAM. 
  
· A similar problem that can trigger after a long time using an application, 
  and that isn't solved by a reboot, is that the files that an application is 
  handling have grown too large. 
  So when the program needs to read those files, it gets really slow. Again, 
  this generally points to a bug in the way the program was designed because it 
  didn't expect the files to grow so large. The best solution in this case is 
  to fix the bug. 
  
  - What can you do if you can't modify the code of the program? 
    You can try to reduce the size of the files involved. If the file is a log 
    file, you can use a program like "logrotate" to do this for you. 
    For other formats, you might need to write your own tool to rotate the 
    contents. 


· Another data point that we can use to diagnose what's going on is whether 
  this happens for all users of the application or just a subset of them. 
  If only some users are affected, we'll want to know if there's something 
  that's configured differently on those computers that might be triggering the 
  slowness. 

  For example, many operating systems include a feature that tracks the files 
  in our computer so it's easy and fast to search for them. This feature can be 
  really useful when looking for something on a computer, but can get in the 
  way of everyday use if we have tons of files and not the most powerful 
  hardware. 

· We've called out before that reading from the network is notably slower than 
  reading from disk. It's common for computers in an office network to use a 
  file system that's mounted over the network so they can share files across 
  computers. This normally works just fine, but can make some programs really 
  slow if they're doing a lot of reads and writes on this network-mounted file 
  system. To fix this, we'll need to make sure that the directory used by the 
  program to read and write most of its data is a directory local to the 
  computer.

· Hardware failures can also cause our computer to become slow. If your hard 
  drive has errors, the computer might still be able to apply error correction 
  to get the data that it needs, but it will affect the overall performance. 
  And once a hard drive starts having errors, it's only a matter of time until 
  they're bad enough that data starts getting lost, so it's worth keeping an 
  eye out for them. 
  To do this, we can use some of the OS utilities that diagnose problems on 
  hard drives or on RAM, and check if there's anything that could be causing 
  problems. 
  
· Yet another source of slowness is malicious software. Of course, we always 
  want to keep your computer clean of any malicious software, but we can feel 
  the effects of malicious software even if they aren't installed. 
  For example, you might have come across a website that includes scripts, 
  either in the website's content or the ads displayed, that use our processor 
  to mine for cryptocurrency.
  Malicious browser extensions also fall into this category.

As you can see, there's a lot of possible reasons that could cause our computer 
to run slowly. Whenever we have to fix an issue like this, we need to look at 
what the bottleneck is, figure out the root cause behind the resource being 
used up, and then take appropriate action.