SLOs

All services have a level of quality and performance they are trying to obtain 
or reach. In the world of tech and operations, these are called service-level 
objectives (SLOs).

In this reading, you will learn more about SLOs, including how to write 
appropriate SLOs and how SLOs relate to service-level agreements (SLAs) and 
service-level indicators (SLIs).


- Service-level objectives (SLOs), defined:

SLOs are found within an SLA and focus on specific and measurable metrics like 
uptime and response time. SLOs set the customers’ expectations and communicate 
to the IT and DevOps teams the goals they need to achieve. 
It’s important to understand and educate yourself on the SLOs that have been 
promised in the SLA so you can make informed decisions about how to invest in 
reliability and keep your promise to achieve the objectives.

When creating SLOs, write them as simply and clearly as possible. If the SLOs 
are vague or immeasurable, they will not serve their purpose and you will be 
setting yourself up for failure.


- SLO example:

Imagine that you work for an IT company that has entered into a contract with a 
customer, and that contract contains the following SLA:

"""
You will maintain 99% uptime of your application, defined as “the home page 
loads correctly 99% of the time within 10 seconds or less.”
"""

The SLA tells you which SLIs need to be monitored, including the page load time 
and whether the page loads correctly or returns an HTTP error message.

Your SLOs include:
    1. The page will load in 10 seconds or less 99% of the time.
    2. The page will return an HTTP 200 (success) code 99% of the time.

Now that your SLA and SLOs are defined, you can use a combination of monitoring 
tools to test the site periodically and record the results for tracking your 
real-world performance against the SLOs.


- Key takeaways:

SLOs are important as they help achieve promises defined in the SLA. These help 
set customer expectations and should be clearly written, measurable, and 
attainable.