Error budgets

Can you remember a time when you were growing up and someone gave you twenty 
dollars to spend at the grocery store? 
They might have said to bring home a gallon of milk and a dozen eggs, and 
whatever money is left you can spend however you want. 
That extra money — or the change — is akin to an error budget in service 
operations.

In this reading, you will learn more about error budgets, how they pertain to 
IT roles, and how an error budget can be used in the real world.


- Definition of an error budget:

An error budget is the maximum amount of time a software program can fail and 
still be in compliance with the service-level objective (SLO). 
An error budget is typically represented by a percentage. A simple example is 
this: If an SLO states that a website should function properly 99.9% of the 
time, then the error budget is only 0.1%.

Now let’s calculate the error budget using time as a measurement in the 
question below. Here is an example in which an error budget is computed for a 
month’s time frame using the following formula:

Error budget = Total time * (1-SLO)

What is the error budget, in minutes, with an SLO of 99.9% uptime over a month?

The total time is the total time in minutes for a given time period. (Assume a 
30-day month for this example.) The SLO is the service-level objective 
represented as a decimal.

Total time = 30*24*60 = 43,200. This formula multiplies 30 days by 24 hours in 
each day by 60 minutes in each hour to get a total of 43,200 minutes.

SLO = 99.9/100 = 0.999. This value represents the SLO as a decimal.

Substitute these values into the formula to get:

Error budget = 43,200 * (1–0.999) = 43.1 minutes.
This means the maximum amount of time the service can be down is up to 43 
minutes per month without violating the agreed-upon reliability standards (the 
SLO).


- The role of error budgets:

Error budgets are part of cloud operations, site reliability engineering, and 
DevOps teams. They are used as a metric to make sure everything is running 
smoothly. If everything is running smoothly and there is a significant amount 
of time to use from the error budget, then DevOps members can use this time to 
invest in innovation on a product or software program.

Error budgets also help establish limits for the development and programming 
teams. If there is not a lot of error budget to use, then developers know that 
they can’t try new things and that their focus needs to remain on the 
reliability of the product or program.

Developers should save the release of new features for when the error budget is 
large.


- Key takeaways:

Error budgets are typically represented as the maximum amount of time that a 
program is able to fail without violating an agreement. The error budget is 
based on the agreed-upon SLO between the clients and vendor. Developers are in 
favor of higher error budgets because this allows them to innovate and try new 
things within the product or service.