- Problem Solving Steps:
    1. Getting information.
    2. Finding the root cause.
    3. Performing the necessary remediation.

1 - Getting Information:
    We should gather as much information as we need about the following:
    · Current state of things.
    · What the issue is.
    · When it happens.
    · What the consequences are.

    To get this information, we can use any existing documentation. This can be 
    internal documentation, manual pages, or even questions asked on the Internet.
    One super important resource to solve a problem is the reproduction case.

    - Reproduction case: 
    A clear description of how and when the problem appears.

2 - Finding the Root Cause:
    This is usually the most difficult step.
    The key here is to get to the bottom of the following:
    · What's going on.
    · What triggered the problem.
    · How we can change that.

3 - Performing the Necessary Remediation:
    Depending on the problem, this might include an immediate remediation to 
    get the system back to health, and then a medium or long-term remediation 
    to avoid the problem in the future.


While these are three basic steps of problem-solving, they don't always happen 
sequentially. 

It's pretty common that while trying to find the root cause, we discover that 
we need even more info about the current state. So we gather more information 
until we find the answer we're looking for, or we could understand the problem 
just enough to create a workaround that lets our users get back to work quickly,
but we'd still need more time to get to the root cause and prevent the problem 
from happening again.


- Documenting:
    It is very important that we document everything that what we do:
        - The info that we get
        - The different things we tested to figure out the root cause. 
        - The steps we took to fix the issue.
    This documentation will be very useful next time a similar issue pops up.


- A Real life example:

A user asks for your help because their computer is unexpectedly shutting down. 
The problem could be a hardware issue, a software issue, or even a onfiguration
issue. Lets follow the problem solving steps:

- Getting Information:
    You'll want to know things like: 
    · When it happened.
    · What the user was doing when it happened.
    · How regularly it's happening.
    
    You'll also want to look at the computer logs to check if there are any
    interesting errors.
    You find a line in the logs that says the temperature threshold was 
    exceeded and so the computer shutdown.
    
    That's useful information, you know why the computer shut down but you don't
    know why it overheated, so you'll need to keep investigating.

- Root Cause:
    After not finding anything else interesting in the logs, you decide to check
    if it's a hardware issue. When you open up the computer, you find that the
    fan that's supposed to cool down the CPU is full of dirt, and so it isn't
    spinning properly. That's the root cause of the problem. 

- Necessary Remediation:
    The short-term remediation is to clean up the fan so that it can spin again
    and the computer doesn't overheat.


Now, What's the long-term remediation? 
In this case, it would be deploying monitoring on the computers to make sure you
get notified early when they're overheating.

Long-term remediation would also include checking if you can reduce the amount
of dust in the air so that there's less chance of this happening again.