Black Box Tests vs White Box Tests

White-box testing also sometimes called clear-box or transparent testing 
relies on the test creators knowledge of the software being tested 
to construct the test cases. 
With a white-box test, the test creator knows how the code works and can 
write test cases that use the understanding to make sure that everything 
is performing the way it's expected to. 

On the other hand, in black-box testing, the software being tested is 
treated like an opaque box. 
In other words, the tester doesn't know the internals of how the software 
works.
Black-box tests are written with an awareness of what the program is supposed 
to do, its requirements or specifications, but not how it does it. 

---


Other Test Types
Integration Tests, Regression Tests, Smoke Tests, Load Tests

- Integration tests:
Integration tests verify that the interactions between the different pieces of
code in integrated environments are working the way we expect them to.
While unit tests shouldn't cross boundaries to do things like make a network
request or integrate with an API or database, the goal of an integration test
is to verify these kinds of interactions and make sure the whole system works
how you expect it to.
Integration test, usually take the individual modules of code that unit test
verify then combine them into a group to test. Depending on what our program does,
and how it interacts with the rest of the systems involved, we might need to
create a separate test environment for our test. Which runs a test version of our
software that we're trying to verify. We might be able to run our test against the
actual version of our system that's running, but that's only if our code doesn't
make any changes to the production environment.

- Regression Tests:
They're usually written as part of a debugging and troubleshooting process to verify
that an issue or error has been fixed once it's been identified.
Say our script has a bug and we're trying to fix it.
A good approach to doing this would be the first right to test fails by triggering the
buggy behavior, then fix the bug so that a test passes.
Regression tests are useful part of a test suite because they ensure that the same
mistake doesn't happen twice.
The same bug can't be reintroduced into the code because introducing it will cause
the regression test to fail. 

- Smoke Tests (Build Verification Tests):
Smoke test sometimes called build verification test, get their name from a concept that
comes from testing hardware equipment.
Plug in the given piece of hardware and see if smoke starts coming out of it.
Writing software smoke test serve as a kind of sanity check to find major bugs in a program.
Smoke test answer basic questions like, does the program run?
These tests are usually run before more refined testing takes place.
Since if the software fails the smoke test you can be pretty sure that 
none of the other tests will pass either.
Examples of Smoke Tests: 
For a web service the smoke test would be to check if there's a service running
on the corresponding port. 
For an automation script, the smoke test would be to run it manually with some
basic input and check that the script finishes successfully.

- Load Tests:
These tests verify that the system behaves well when it's under significant load.
To actually perform these tests will need to generate traffic to our application simulating
typical usage of the service.
These tests can be super-helpful when deploying new versions of our applications to verify
that performance does not degrade.
For example, we might want to measure the response time of our website while there
are 100 requests per second on our pages, or a 1000, or 10,000.
The actual numbers will depend on the expectations of how much traffic our website will receive.

Taking together a group of tests of one or many kinds is commonly referred to as a test suite.
A good diversity of test types can create a more robust test suite that helps ensure your scripts
and automation, do what you tell them to.

There are many more kinds of tests out there, we've only touched on a few of the most common types.
