- Reproduction Case:
A reproduction case is a way to verify if the problem is present or not.

We want to make the reproduction case as simple as possible. That way, we can 
clearly understand when it happens, and it makes it really easy to check if the 
problem is fixed or not, when we try to solve it.

Sometimes, the reproduction case is pretty obvious.
· In our example where the program fail to start because of a missing directory,
  the reproduction case was to open the program without that directory on the computer.

· On our overloaded server example, the reproduction case for the failure was to
  try to login to the website and see the loading page.
  
But sometimes the reproduction case might be much more complex to discover. 


- Real Life Example:

Imagine you're trying to help a user with an application that won't start.
This time when you run the same version of the application on your computer, 
the application starts just fine.
So you suspect that the problem has to do with something in the user's 
environment or configuration.
There could be a bunch of reasons why this could happen. It could be problems 
with the network routing, old config files interfering with a new version of 
the program, a permissions problem blocking the user from accessing some 
required resource, or even some faulty piece of hardware acting out.

So how can you figure out what's causing the problem?

The first step is to read the logs available to you. 
Which logs to read, will depend on the operating system and the application that you're trying to debug: 
· On Linux, you'd read system logs like "/var/log/syslog" and user-specific
  logs like the ".xsession-errors" file located in the user's home directory.
· On MacOs, on top of the system logs, you'd go through the logs stored in the
  "library logs" directory.
· On Windows, you'd use the "Event Viewer" tool to go through the event logs.

No matter the operating system, remember to look at the logs when something 
isn't behaving as it should. Lots of times, you'll find an error message that 
will help you understand what's going on like: 
· "Unable to reach server",
· "Invalid file format", or
· "Permission denied".

But what if you're unlucky, and there's no error message, or the error message is super unhelpful like "Internal system error".

The next step is to try to isolate the conditions that trigger the issue:
· Do other users in the same office also experienced the problem?
· Does the same thing happen if the same user logs into a different computer?
· Does the problem happen if the applications config directory is moved away?

Let's say that it's the config directories fault.
You ask the user to move it away without deleting it, and now the application 
starts correctly.
So you ask the user to send you the contents of that directory.
You copy them onto your computer, and the program fails to start.

Bingo! you got your reproduction case. It's starting the program with that 
config in place.
Having a clear reproduction case, let's us investigate the issue, and quickly 
see what changes it. 
For example:
· Does the problem go away if you revert the application to the previous version?
· Are there any differences in the "strace" log, or the "ltrace" log when running the application with the bugged config and without it?

On top of that, having a clear reproduction case, lets you share with others 
when asking for help,
(As long as you aren't sharing any confidential information of course)
you could use it to report a bug to the applications developers, to ask for 
help from a colleague, or even to ask for help from an Internet forum about the 
application if it's publicly available.

So when trying to create a reproduction case, we want to find the actions that 
reproduce the issue, and we want these to be "as simple as possible". 
The smaller the change in the environment and the shorter the list of steps to 
follow, the better. 

To get there, we might need to dig deeper into the problem until we have a 
small enough set of instructions.
Once you have a reproduction case, you're ready to move on to the next step, 
finding the root cause. 
We'll talk about that in our next module.